DOCS-12204 (#166)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/external-identity-index.adoc

Organizations that do not require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for its user accounts have the option to enable or disable MFA and exempt accounts. If an organization requires MFA, organization administrators can manage exempt accounts in the settings for the Anypoint IdP.

== Before You Begin

Before getting started, ensure you have:

* The organization administrator permission
* An OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0 identity provider

== Managing Identity Providers

Access your list of identity providers, configure settings, and add additional identity providers.

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-identity-providers.adoc[]

If you have one or more external client providers configured for your organization, a list of identity providers appears.

== Adding Identity Providers

Click *Add Identity Provider*, and then select the identity provider type you want to add. Choose one of the following:

* xref:access-management::conf-openid-connect-task.adoc[OpenID Connect]
* xref:access-management::conf-saml-sso.adoc[SAML 2.0]

> == Deleting Identity Providers

Reviewer: might be a good place to include something similar to the warning we added in https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-access-management/pull/162/files for teams and role group mappings for that provider

> If you have more than one identity provider configured, delete external identity providers that you no longer need.

Author: ```suggestion
If you have more than one identity provider configured, delete external identity providers that you no longer need.

Before deleting an IdP, ensure your users' credentials and permissions structures are configured with a different IdP, such as the Anypoint IdP or a different external IdP. 

When you delete an IdP:

* Users can no longer use that IdP to log in to Anypoint Platform.
* Any external team or role group mappings associated with the IdP are deleted. 
* The Access Management API endpoints associated with this IdP are no longer supported.

To delete an identity provider:

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-identity-providers.adoc[]

. Next to the identity provider you want to delete, click the *...* menu.
. Click *Delete...*
. In the *API Update* window, click *Continue*.
. Enter the name of your identity provider.
. Click *Delete*.

```

= Manage Identity Providers
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Configure multiple external identity providers (IdPs) to enable single sign-on (SSO) for users in your organization.

Author: ```suggestion
Configure up to 25 external identity providers (IdPs) to enable single sign-on (SSO) for users in your organization.
```

> Anypoint Platform currently supports SAML 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) configurations for SSO providers.

Author: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform currently supports SAML 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) configurations for SSO providers.

If you are using the Access Management API, note the following:

* The old endpoints that are not scoped to new IdPs are replaced with new endpoints.
* IdPs created prior to October 31, 2021 are backwards compatible with old endpoints.
* If a legacy IdP is deleted, then old endpoints are no longer supported, even if the legacy IdP is readded.
```

> == Anypoint Identity Provider

Reviewer 2: This is not shown as a product or feature name in our SSoT doc, so I think we need to call this Anypoint Platform IdP as a thing, not a proper noun. We absolutely never refer to only "Anypoint" alone, without "Platform," if the rest of a name does not follow.

Reviewer 2: So I think what we need to say here is that Anypoint Platform comes with and uses its own native IdP until you add one or more external IdPs.

Author: It's infrastructure rather than a product or feature, and it's in the UI as Anypoint IdP. I don't think there is any harm in calling it the Anypoint Platform IdP as you suggest, however, so I'll take that suggestion.

Author: ```suggestion
== Anypoint Platform Identity Provider
```

The Anypoint IdP is the default identity provider in Anypoint Platform. You can disable it after you add one or more external identity providers.

> Organizations that use Anypoint as one of its identity providers control whether organization administrators can add new users to the organization themselves or add users through an external identity provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Organizations that use the native Anypoint Platform IdP as one of their identity providers control whether administrators add new users to the organization either themselves or via an external identity provider.
```
Also, not sure here whether it would be more clear to leave out "themselves"?
```suggestion
Organizations that use the native Anypoint Platform IdP as one of their identity providers control whether new users are added to the organization using either that IdP or an external identity provider.
```

> Organizations that do not require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for its user accounts have the option to enable or disable MFA and exempt accounts. If an organization requires MFA, organization administrators can manage exempt accounts in the settings for the Anypoint IdP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Organizations that do not require multifactor authentication (MFA) for their user accounts choose to enable or disable MFA and exempt accounts. If an organization requires MFA, administrators manage exempt accounts in the settings for the native Anypoint Platform IdP.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Organizations that do not require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for their user accounts choose to enable or disable MFA and exempt accounts. If an organization requires MFA, administrators manage exempt accounts in the settings for the native Anypoint Platform IdP.
```

== Before You Begin

> Before getting started, ensure you have:

Reviewer 2: ensure that, always
```suggestion
Before getting started, ensure that you have:
```

> * The organization administrator permission

Author: ```suggestion
* The Organization Administrator permission
```

* An OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0 identity provider

== Managing Identity Providers

Access your list of identity providers, configure settings, and add additional identity providers.

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-identity-providers.adoc[]

> If you have one or more external client providers configured for your organization, a list of identity providers appears.

Reviewer: I think `client` should be `identity`?
the list will always show up since Anypoint will be in the list

Author: ```suggestion
A list of identity providers appears.
```

== Adding Identity Providers

Click *Add Identity Provider*, and then select the identity provider type you want to add. Choose one of the following:

* xref:access-management::conf-openid-connect-task.adoc[OpenID Connect]
* xref:access-management::conf-saml-sso.adoc[SAML 2.0]

== Deleting Identity Providers

If you have more than one identity provider configured, delete external identity providers that you no longer need.

> Before deleting an IdP, ensure your users' credentials and permissions structures are configured with a different IdP, such as the Anypoint IdP or a different external IdP. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before deleting an IdP, ensure that your users' credentials and permissions structures are configured with a different IdP, such as the native Anypoint Platform IdP or an external IdP. 
```

When you delete an IdP:

* Users can no longer use that IdP to log in to Anypoint Platform.
* Any external team or role group mappings associated with the IdP are deleted. 

> * The Access Management API endpoints associated with this IdP are no longer supported.

Reviewer: here's the endpoint compatibility scenarios:

The old endpoints that are not scoped to IdP will be replaced with new endpoints.
However, IdPs created *pre* multiple idps will be backwards compatible with the old endpoints. 
But if the legacy IdP is deleted, then the old endpoints will no longer be supported

not sure if we want to be more specific about that here, or have the api section like we discussed

Reviewer 3: Since this is under "when you delete an IdP", is this ok to ship Bryan? (thanks for the extra context, I agree we don't need to be more specific here)

Reviewer: yup! this is a good general statement to cover all situations

> * The Access Management API endpoints associated with this IdP are no longer supported.

Reviewer 2: Note that these three bullet items refer to the IdP in three different ways: `that`, `the`, and `this`: standardize.

Author: ```suggestion
* Users can no longer use this IdP to log in to Anypoint Platform.
* Any external team or role group mappings associated with this IdP are deleted. 
* The Access Management API endpoints associated with this IdP are no longer supported.
```

= Manage Identity Providers
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Configure up to 25 external identity providers (IdPs) to enable single sign-on (SSO) for users in your organization.
Anypoint Platform currently supports SAML 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) configurations for SSO providers.

If you are using the Access Management API, note the following:

* The old endpoints that are not scoped to new IdPs are replaced with new endpoints.
* IdPs created prior to October 31, 2021 are backwards compatible with old endpoints.
* If a legacy IdP is deleted, then old endpoints are no longer supported, even if the legacy IdP is readded.

> == Anypoint Platform Identity Provider

Author: ```suggestion
== Managing User Identities with Anypoint Platform
```

> The Anypoint IdP is the default identity provider in Anypoint Platform. You can disable it after you add one or more external identity providers.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, an organization manages user identities and credentials using Anypoint Platform. You can disable this functionality after you add one or more external identity providers.
```

> Organizations that use the native Anypoint Platform IdP as one of their identity providers control whether new users are added to the organization using either that IdP or an external identity provider.

Author: ```suggestion
Organizations that use Anypoint Platform to manage user identities control whether new users are added to the organization using either Access Management settings or an external identity provider.
```

> Organizations that do not require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for their user accounts choose to enable or disable MFA and exempt accounts. If an organization requires MFA, administrators manage exempt accounts in the settings for the native Anypoint Platform IdP.

Author: ```suggestion
Organizations that do not require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for their user accounts choose to enable or disable MFA and exempt accounts. If an organization requires MFA, administrators manage exempt accounts in the *Identity Providers* section using the *Anypoint* settings.
```
